Entry Points: 7/12/14 WorkshopSystematic review and meta-analysis as an entry point (Elliott)Student: I’m doing a systematic review and I’m wondering if you could help?Librarian: I'd be happy to. Could you tell me a bit about your project?Student: Well, I'm investigating the transmission of the Zika virus and looking at different vector-control interventions. I want to be sure that I'm finding all the relevant published studies.Librarian: That sounds like a very timely project. Let’s spend some time defining your research scope, developing some search strategies and identifying appropriate databases to search. We can also talk about using citation management software to keep your resources organized.Student: That would be great. Librarian: Will your review include a meta-analysis? Student: Yes, I want to extract and synthesize data from the studies I find.Librarian: So this is a good time to talk about planning for the research data lifecycle. I’d like to refer you to our Research Data Management experts to talk about how you might develop a plan for processing, preserving and sharing your data.Discussion points: * Systematic reviews may involve a meta-analysis of data* When you offer to help with their literature search and citation management, you might also inquire about their data management planning needsSoftware as an entry point (Anna)Student: I have a dataset currently in Excel and am interested in using Tableau to create a visualization. Can you help me get started? Librarian: Unfortunately, I don’t have an in-depth knowledge of Tableau, but it’s possible that I can refer you to someone who can help you get started with the software. What type of project will you be using it for?Student: Well, I’m preparing for my Master’s capstone presentation and would like to create a visualization of skin temperature and heart rate data that my group collected from wearable sensors.Librarian: Oh, I see - so this data that you have collected yourself? Student: We’ve gathered it ourselves from a group of volunteers who wore the sensors we developed. Librarian: Okay, can you tell me more about where you’re storing your data, what kind of information is in the dataset, and what you’re trying to show?Student: It’s on my laptop and I’ve shared it with my collaborators via Dropbox. It currently has the age, name, weight, height, heart rate, and temperature sensor information.  We measured the participants’ skin temperature and heart rates before, during, and after jogging on a treadmill. I still need to remove the identifying information, but I’d like to create a visualization that shows body temperature and heart rate over time as it relates to speed.   Librarian: Okay, it sounds like you need some help with storage - Dropbox isn’t one of our university approved storage options and you have a lot of confidential information.  I’d like to connect you with an RDM consultant. They can also help you set up automated back up to the cloud, so that you won’t lose all your data if something happens to your laptop. I’ll also connect you with our Data Lab at Doe Library and our librarian there can get you started on Tableau, creating the right type of visualization.  Discussion points for model one: Software requests at any point in the lifecycle (managing references in Zotero, analysis tools, or visualization tools) can be a trigger point to ask about the research project and if they’ve thought about data management. If they’ll be collecting original data, refer them to the RDM guide or Jamie for more.Metrics Entry PointResearcher: I’m trying to figure out my h-index, can you help me with that?Librarian: Yes, absolutely. Have you tried to calculate it before and had trouble?Researcher: I used a couple of different calculators - I used Web of Science and Google Scholar, but I’m not sure I was doing it correctly because I got different results.Librarian: I see. It may be that you are actually calculating your h-index correctly, but Web of Science and Google Scholar use different data sources. Is there something in particular that you’re concerned about?Researcher: It’s for my dossier, so I want to represent myself in the best light, but I also want my information to be accurate.Librarian: Of course. I see here that the journals you are publishing in are primarily subscription-based. Have you considered publishing your papers and data in open access journals?Researcher: What is the advantage of that?Librarian: Well, from an impact perspective, we know that openly publishing articles and data increases citations, which would increase your h-index. Making your data openly available also promotes replication of your research, which broadens your impact as well. There are some very well-regarded open access publications in your discipline.Researcher: I might be open to publishing my data, though I doubt anyone would want it. How do I go about doing that?Librarian: Let me refer you to the Research Data Management team, they can set up a time to meet with you and get you started.Discussion:* Conversations about scholarly communication and citation or impact can serve as an opportunity to discuss reproducibility. Researchers are often unaware of the incentives for openly publishing data, or publishing data at all.* There are some publications that exclusively publish data, like Nature’s Scientific Data.